

MICHEL DE BREE


Full stack software developer with 20+ years of experience in complex
and dynamic IT landscapes, who thrives on working on challenging agile
projects as part of a multi-disciplinary team.

My technical experience ranges a full development stack. From, for
example, provisioning a Linux based server architecture, to developing
service-oriented JEE, to implementing a REST API driven AngularJS front
end.

My experience mainly involves customer facing internet channels that
integrate reliably and securely with back office systems, in the field
of logistics, telecommunication, banking and the medical sector. In my
daily work I frequently communicate with business analysts as well as
the IT department and IT suppliers of my customers. I often have an
advisory role concerning system- and software architecture.

I prefer to work in a motivated, multi-disciplinary, self-directing team
with a clear focus on the business case and in close collaboration with
the stakeholders.


Personal Information

[Photo]

Year of birth: 1972

Residence: The Hague / The Netherlands

Languages: Dutch (native), English (fluent), French (intermediate),
German (beginner)

E-mail: michel@micheldebree.nl

LinkedIn: nl.linkedin.com/in/micheldebree


Education

1991-1998 Technical Computer Science, Software Engineering, _Delft
University of Technology_, Netherlands

1984-1991 VWO beta, _Het Vlietland College_, _Leiden_, Netherlands


Technical Skills

Backend

Java Enterprise Edition (JEE), JBoss, Apache Tomcat, IBM Websphere,
WSO2, Graylog, HAProxy, Redhat Enterprise Linux, Amazon EC2, Windows,
SOAP Webservices, REST, JSON, SAML2, HL7v3, XML, SMTP, LDAP, SSL,
HTTP(S)

Frontend

HTML5, CSS, Javascript, jQuery, AngularJS, REST, JSON, XSLT, JSP, Spring
MVC, JSF, Bootstrap, NodeJS

Database

PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQLServer, Oracle

Frameworks & Tooling

Hibernate, Spring, Node.js, Log4J, JPA, Quartz, Mockito, CXF, SLF4J,
JUnit, EhCache, Dozer, Hibernate Validator, Velocity, Hystrix, IntelliJ,
Eclipse, SoapUI

Continuous Delivery & Integration

Maven, Git, Hudson/Jenkins, Sonar, Unit Testing, Subversion, TeamCity,
Artifactory, Nexus, Stash, JIRA (incl. Agile), Confluence, Selenium

Project & Design

Scrum, DevOps, Agile, Object Oriented Analysis and Design (OOAD),
Unified Modeling Language (UML), Service Oriented Architecture (SOA),
Domain-Driven Design (DDD), Test driven development (TDD), API design,
security, OWASP, scalability, performance and design.


Working Experience

2014-present: Freelance Senior Java EE Developer, _micheldebree.nl_

2005-2014: Senior Software Engineer, _E-ID Internet Strategies_ (now
DearNova)

2003-2005: Software Engineer, _Imtech ICT_ (now Axians)

2001-2003: Software Engineer, _PaC_ (now Axians)

1994-2001: Developer, _Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum_


2014 to present: Freelance Projects

Generic enterprise application platform

2015-PRESENT @ DUTCH MINISTRY OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND ENVIRONMENT
_(government)_

Development, in a Scrum team, of an automatically provisioned enterprise
application platform. This generic platform is based on the Java
platform and open source components. It is scalable, reliable and secure
according to industry standards. A new instance of the platform,
consisting of several virtual Linux servers in a cloud environment, is
provisioned fully automatic from scratch and works out-of-the box. A
central governance solution is included for automatic deployment through
the DTAP cycle and central configuration and management of the business
applications that are hosted on the platform.

Activities

  Full stack development of all aspects of the platform, especially
  governance components (Java) and automatic provisioning of new
  infrastructure- and platform components (Ruby). Code review, technical
  design, writing technical and functional documentation, quality
  control of code, versioning and DTAP street.

Techniques

  Scrum, DevOps, JIRA, Confluence, Git, Maven, Nexus, Jenkins, Python,
  Liquibase, Sonar, WSO2 Governance Registry, Selenium, JMeter, JUnit,
  SOAPUI, Mockito JSF, Angular.JS, JAX-RS, REST, JSON, WSO2 API Manager,
  JEE, JBoss, CDI, Hibernate, JAX-WS, SOAP, Webservices, WSO2 ESB, SSL,
  SAML2, WSO2 Identity Server, OpenLDAP, PostgreSQL, ElasticSearch,
  MongoDB, Graylog, HAProxy, Squid, Apache, RHEL/CentOS 7, Amazon EC2,
  OpenStack, Ruby, Vagrant

Customer Authentication ING Internet Banking

2014-2015 @ ING _(banking)_

Working in a DevOps Scrum team on internet banking applications and
services involving customer authentication.

Activities

  Functional and technical design, client-side (AngularJS) and
  server-side (Java REST API's and SOAP services) implementation,
  automated testing, backend integration, code reviews, security audits,
  automated deployment, incident analysis, automated monitoring,
  restacking of applications, automated testing, documentation, release
  and deployment of components through the DTAP street.

Techniques

  Scrum, DevOps, Java EE, Spring, Maven, AngularJS, REST, JSON, Linux,
  Websphere, Tomcat, Oracle, Jenkins, Nolio, GIT, Stash, JIRA,
  Confluence, Sonar, Nexus, Mockito, Protractor, Selenium, Docker,
  Virtualize, JUnit, Eclipse, IntelliJ, Fortify, SOAPUi


2005-2014: Projects for E-ID internet strategies

New online platform DELA

2014 @ DELA _(insurance)_

Software architecture & design, lead development as part of a big
redesign project for a future-ready, mobile first online customer
platform. The website won "Best Website 2015" in the insurance category.

  Keywords: Scrum, REST, Javascript, HTML5, CSS3, Sitecore, Responsive
  design, ASP.NET MVC5, DDD, OOAD, C#, Twitter Bootstrap, Security,
  Scalability, Git, TeamCity, JIRA, Confluence, Entity Framework, Fluent
  Validations, Razor, NUnit, Moq, Artifactory.

KPN Glassfibre order tracking

2014 @ KPN _(telecommunications)_

Lead developer & software architect. Rapid and agile development of a
web application for keeping customers up-to-date of the status of their
ordered products.

  Keywords: Java, Spring MVC, SOAP-WS, CXF, JUnit, Hibernate Validator,
  JPA, SLF4J, Tomcat, Maven, PostgreSQL

DPD Online sales platform

2013-2014 @ DPD _(logistics)_

Analysis, pre-sales, system- and software architecture and some
development on the new online sales platform for DPD.

  Keywords: Angular.js, REST, Web API, ASP.NET, C#, OOAD, DDD

LSP Customer Portal

2012-2014 @ VZVZ _(medical sector)_

Lead development and design of a suite of web based applications for the
public facing channel to the new Landelijk Electronic Patient Dossier,
now called LSP. Involved in both a redesign of the system architecture
as well as building new frontend applications and integrating with the
LSP itself and supporting systems. High availability, security, privacy
and traceability are paramount in this suite of applications.

  Keywords: DigiD, SAML2, ASP.NET, C#, SQLServer, OOAD, DDD, Spring.NET,
  NHibernate, SOAP-WS, XmlSig, HL7v3

De Lage Landen Lease portal

2013 @ DE LAGE LANDEN _(financial services)_

Lead- and integration developer for a new, interactive searchengine for
leasing vehicles on the site of DLL.

  Keywords: Angular.js, REST, C#, ASP.NET WebAPI, JSON, Unity.

Saltro laboratory results portal

2013 @ SALTRO _(medical sector)_

Technical analysis, software architecture and lead development on the
public facing, web-based channel of medical laboratory data. > Keywords:
ASP.NET, C#, HL7, OOAD, DDD, MySQL, NHibernate, Spring.NET, ASP.NET
WebAPI, jQuery

Ziggo Cloudservices directory

2012 @ ZIGGO _(telecommunications)_

Lead development and software architecture of a new online directory for
cloud services for small to medium sized companies. Includes a
personalized dashboard which integrates with the user's personal
internet services.

  Keywords: Java, Spring, JPA, Hibernate, IMAP, MsExchange, CalDav,
  iCal, Facebook API, Twitter API, LinkenIn API, AJAX, jQuery,
  PostgreSQL. Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn integration.

Infinitas international webshop platform

2011-2012 @ INFINITAS _(publishing)_

Development, maintenance and mainly backoffice integration for the
e-commerce platform that drives book publisher webshops in various
european countries.

  Keywords: Java, JEE, RAD, IBM Websphere Commerce, Oracle, MySQL, SOAP
  Webservices.

Customer portal for the National Electronic Patient Dossier

2010-2011 @ DIDOC _(information technology)_

Integration, development and architecture consultancy for the customer
portal of the National Electronic Patient Dossier (EPD). Because of the
sensitivity of medical information, the demands for availability,
reliability and security are very high. This concerns the 'paper'
channel where civilians can login, fill in forms and get the information
sent to them on paper by regular mail.

  Keywords: .NET, SAML2, DigiD, C#, ASP.NET MVC, SOAP-WS, HL7v3.

Customer portal for the National Electronic Patient Dossier

2009-2010 @ CIBG _(government)_

Integration, development, architecture consultancy and business
requirements consultancy for the customer portal of the National
Electronic Patient Dossier (EPD). Because of the sensitivity of medical
information, the demands for availability, reliability and security are
very high. This concerns the 'paper' channel where civilians can login,
fill in forms and get the information sent to them paper by regular
mail. This concerns the online channel where civilians authenticate with
their national electronic id (DigiD) and have immediate access to the
information stored about them in de National Electronic Patient Dossier.

  Keywords: .NET, SAML2, DigiD, C#, ASP.NET MVC, SOAP-WS, HL7v3.

Customer portal for the National Electronic Patient Dossier (Prototype)

2009 @ NICTIZ _(semi-government)_

Software architecture, development, business requirement consultancy for
a proof-of-concept for the customer portal of the National Electronic
Patient Dossier (EPD). Built as a working prototype.

  Keywords: Java, Spring, SOAP-WS, XML, CXF, JAXB, SAML2, HL7, Velocity,
  FOP.

Internal scheduling application

2008-2009 @ TNT EXPRESS _(logistics)_

Lead development on an internal application for scheduling of logistic
processes.

  Keywords: SOA, JEE, EJB, Hibernate, Struts, Oracle

Banking Integration Layer

2005-2007 @ AEGON BANK _(banking)_

Development and maintenance of the integration layer between backoffice
and the internet channels, aswell as internal tools.

  Keywords: J2EE, EJB, Struts, IBM Websphere.


2001-2005: Projects for Imtech ICT / PaC

Search engine for educational material

2005 @ KENNISNET _(education)_

Development of a new version of the DaVindi educational search engine
for primary education students.

  Keywords: J2EE, Lucene

Internal resource planning application

2005 @ IMTECH ICT _(information technology)_

Functional and technical design, development of an internal resource
planning application.

  Keywords: Java, J2EE, Hibernate, MySQL, Tapestry

System integration

2004-2005 @ NEDAL (_industrial_)

Development and deployment of integration between back office and
production facility.

  Keywords: Java, SOAP Webservices

Data visualisation application

2004 @ OASEN _(facilities)_

Design and development of an application for visualising actual
measurements of water flow and retainment on a map of The Netherlands.

  Keywords: Java, JSP, MySQL, Tomcat

Corporate CMS

2003-2005 @ IMTECH ICT _(information technology)_

Extending the open source CMS MMBase with functionality for hosting
multiple sites and authoring workflow.

  Keywords: MMBase, Java.

Corporate Identity Management System (Prototype)

2004 @ DE ZAAK LAUNSPACH _(graphical industry)_

Design and development of a web-based corporate identity management
system. Customers of DZL can access their corporate identity designs and
imagery. Images are automatically rescaled to the desired purpose, and
PDF templates can be used to generate documents in the corporate
identity style. Built as a functional prototype.

  Keywords: Java, MMBase.

Product & order configuration application

2001-2002 @ FLEXIFORCE _(industry)_

Development of a Windows desktop application for configuration of
overhead doors and order tracking. To be used internally as well as by
FlexiForce's customers for configuring and placing orders.

  Keywords: Visual Basic, SQLServer, MS Access

Automatic University Exam System

1994-1995 @ LEIDEN UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER _(medical sector)_

Part time development, during my studies, of the successor to EGEL 2.0,
a desktop software package for creating, generating and taking exams for
university medical students, including the use of multimedia like
photos, movie clips and soundbites.

  Keywords: Visual Basic, MS Access.

_the most recent version and sourcecode of this cv can be found at_
github.com/micheldebree/cv
